README.md, before:

# Kubernetes, ArgoCD, and Kafka
Just a quick example of how to set up a test Kuberentes (k8s) environment with KIND, and then using ArgoCD as our Continuous Delivery to test deploy a Kafka helm chart :) I'm writing this in mid-May 2022, and I make no promises for people trying to do legacy work, or proceed in the future. If it's not mid-May 2022, ymmv.

If you'd like, you can Learn more about the following before proceeding:
- [brew](https://brew.sh/) - Missing package manager for Mac (also supports Linux)
- [docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/) - Containerization tooling
- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/what-is-kubernetes/) - [THE CLUSTER](media/peridot.png) we use to scale containers :3
- [KIND](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) - Tool to spin up mini k8s cluster
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/quickstart/) - This is a package manager for kube apps (mostly a bunch of k8s yamls)
- [ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - Continuous Delivery for k8s apps (4.6.0) (We'll install this on the cluster, but you'll need the [CLI tool](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/cli_installation/) locally)
- [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/intro) - Handles real-time data feeds at scale (We'll install this together)

## Installation of quick k8s cluster (KIND)
You can install docker, kubernetes, kind, and helm with brew on Mac or Linux :D Check the links in the above section to learn more.

### brew (On MacOS/Linux)
Make sure you have the `Brewfile` from this repo and then run: 
```bash
brew bundle install Brewfile
```

### apt (On Debian/Ubuntu)
```zsh
# install docker/kubectl deps
sudo apt-get -y install \
	apt-transport-https \
	ca-certificates \
	curl \
	gnupg-agent \
	software-properties-common

# download the gpg keys we need 
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo curl -fsSLo /usr/share/keyrings/kubernetes-archive-keyring.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg
curl https://baltocdn.com/helm/signing.asc | sudo apt-key add -

# Add the repositories 
# Docker requires the appropriate ubuntu flavor for docker, in this case "focal".
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu focal stable"
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/kubernetes-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
echo "deb https://baltocdn.com/helm/stable/debian/ all main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/helm-stable-debian.list

# update the package cache 
sudo apt-get -y update

# actually install something :D
sudo apt-get -y install \
	docker-ce \
	docker-ce-cli \
	containerd.io \
	kubectl \
	helm

# create a group for docker, and add the user to it for sudoless docker
sudo apt-get -y update
groupadd docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker

# install KIND
curl -Lo ./kind https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/dl/v0.13.0/kind-linux-amd64
chmod +x ./kind
sudo mv ./kind /usr/bin/kind

# install ArgoCD CLI
sudo curl -sSL -o /usr/local/bin/argocd https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/releases/latest/download/argocd-linux-amd64
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/argocd
```

Then you can create a quick small cluster with the below command. It will create a cluster called kind, and it will have one node, but it will be fast, like no more than a few minutes. 

```bash
$ kind create cluster
Creating cluster "kind" ...
 ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:v1.21.1) 🖼
 ✓ Preparing nodes 📦
 ✓ Writing configuration 📜
 ✓ Starting control-plane 🕹️
 ✓ Installing CNI 🔌
 ✓ Installing StorageClass 💾
Set kubectl context to "kind-kind"
You can now use your cluster with:

kubectl cluster-info --context kind-kind

Not sure what to do next? 😅  Check out https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/
```

*Note: make sure you have kubectl installed, and you can install that with brew as well*

You'll want to follow kind advice and get some important info with, as well as verify the cluster is good to go:
``` bash
$ kubectl cluster-info --context kind-kind
Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:64067
CoreDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:64067/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy

$ kind get clusters
kind

$ kg namespaces
NAME                 STATUS   AGE
default              Active   27m
kube-node-lease      Active   27m
kube-public          Active   27m
kube-system          Active   27m
local-path-storage   Active   27m
```

Now that we've verified we have a local k8s cluster, let's get Argo up and running!

## Installing ArgoCD

First we'll need helm (`brew install helm`, if you haven't already). Then, if you want this to be repeatable, you can clone this repo because you'll need to create the `Chart.yaml` and `values.yaml` in `charts/argo`. You can update your `version` parameter in `charts/argo/Chart.yaml` to the `version` param you see in [this repo](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-helm/blob/master/charts/argo-cd/Chart.yaml), at whatever time in the future that you're working on this. If you don't verify that version you will end up like me, half way down this article... :facepalm:

Then you can run the following helm commands:

```bash
$ helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
"argo" has been added to your repositories

$ helm dep update charts/argo/
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "argo" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
Saving 1 charts
Downloading argo-cd from repo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
Deleting outdated charts
```

The next thing you need to do do is install the chart with:

```bash
$ helm install argo-cd charts/argo/
```

### How to fix crd-install issue (Skip if no issue on `helm install`)
*Why and How*
You would see this:
```bash
$ helm install argo-cd charts/argo/
manifest_sorter.go:192: info: skipping unknown hook: "crd-install"
manifest_sorter.go:192: info: skipping unknown hook: "crd-install"
NAME: argo-cd
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed May 11 10:53:55 2022
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
```

You need those CRDs, or the pod will just crash loop, and then when you try to follow the next logical step of port-forwarding to test the frontend, you'll get something like this, when you actually test it:
```bash
$ kubectl port-forward svc/argo-cd-argocd-server 8080:443
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8080 -> 8080
Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080
Handling connection for 8080
```

Which seems fine, but when you go to http://localhost:8080 in your browser you'll see this in stdout in your terminal:
```
E0511 11:07:43.094956   46063 portforward.go:406] an error occurred forwarding 8080 -> 8080: error forwarding port 8080 to pod 53c2b12a3c748bb2c9acd763ed898c5261227ca4b359c047ec264608cbc67058, uid : failed to execute portforward in network namespace "/var/run/netns/cni-84865981-c6a2-6e6d-1ce1-336602591e41": failed to connect to localhost:8080 inside namespace "53c2b12a3c748bb2c9acd763ed898c5261227ca4b359c047ec264608cbc67058", IPv4: dial tcp4 127.0.0.1:8080: connect: connection refused IPv6 dial tcp6 [::1]:8080: connect: connection refused
E0511 11:07:43.095553   46063 portforward.go:234] lost connection to pod
Handling connection for 8080
E0511 11:07:43.096354   46063 portforward.go:346] error creating error stream for port 8080 -> 8080: EOF
```

This happens because you're using an older version of argoCD, and is apparently because of [this issue](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/issues/7972) and is fixed by [this](https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6930), so you can just update your version.

*Fix*
Update `version` of your `charts/argo/Chart.yaml` to at least 4.6.0 (cause that's what worked for me :D)

Then you'll need to rerun the dep update:
```bash
helm dep update charts/argo/
```

Followed by uninstalling, and then reinstalling:
```bash
$ helm uninstall argo-cd
release "argo-cd" uninstalled
```

### Resume here after CRD issue detour
Now, for the perfect installation of our dreams:
```bash
$ helm install argo-cd charts/argo/
NAME: argo-cd
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed May 11 14:52:59 2022
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
```
:chef-kiss:

## Argo via the GUI
You'll need to test out the front end, but before you can do that, you need to do some port forwarding:
```bash
$ kubectl port-forward svc/argo-cd-argocd-server 8080:443
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8080 -> 8080
Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080
Handling connection for 8080
Handling connection for 8080
Handling connection for 8080
Handling connection for 8080
```

SUCCESS, we now get this in the browser:

<img src="media/argo_screenshot_2022-05-11_15.36.20.png" alt="Screenshot of the self-hosted-k8s ArgoCD login page in firefox" width="500"/>

You can now login with the default username, `admin`, and auto-generated password from this k8s secret:
```bash
kubectl get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d
```

### CLI
First you should generate cli completion for your shell of choice. In my case, it was BASH:
```bash
$ argocd completion bash > ~/.bashrc_argocd
$ source ~/.bashrc_argocd

# need to port forward, but we want this in the background
$ kubectl port-forward svc/argo-cd-argocd-server 8080:443 &
```

Authenticate to your forwarded argo sessions via username
```bash
argocd login --port-forward --plaintext
Username: admin
Password: 
'admin:login' logged in successfully
Context 'port-forward' updated
```

This will auto-generate a config-file at ~/.config/argocd/config

Example ~/.config/argocd/config:

```bash
vmadmin@ubuntu:~/argo-kafka-example$ cat /home/vmadmin/.config/argocd/config
contexts:
- name: port-forward
  server: port-forward
  user: port-forward
current-context: port-forward
servers:
- grpc-web-root-path: ""
  plain-text: true
  server: port-forward
users:
- auth-token: < SOME_TOKEN >
  name: port-forward
```

If you dont use the flags "--port-forward" and "--plaintext" you'll 
probably get this error:

```bash
FATA[0001] dial tcp 127.0.0.1:8080: connect: connection refused 
```

If you don't have the argoCD server address already specified you'll get this:
```bash
FATA[0000] Argo CD server address unspecified
```

## Getting Started with Kafka
Kafka will also be installed via helm, but this time with Argo. You'll want to have a git repo for kafka for this next part. In this case, I'm using this repo, but only to keep this managable as a tutorial.

Add the Bitnami helm repo:
```
$ helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
```

Make sure you have the `charts/kafka/Chart.yaml` for this next part. Then update your chart:
```
$ helm dep update charts/kafka/
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "bitnami" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
Saving 1 charts
Downloading kafka from repo https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
Deleting outdated charts
```

That should put you to the point where you can now push this repo, and have argo sync it.

## Prepare kafka repo
For sake of simplicity and future automation, you can use the [github cli](https://cli.github.com/) to create a repo:
```
$ gh repo create argo-and-kafka-example
```

## Add kafka to ArgoCD

Create an SSH key pair, and then paste the public key into the deploy key section of your GitHub repo.

Make sure you have argocd cli installed, and then you can run (with `~/id_rsa_argo_deploy` being your newly created SSH key pair from the previous step):
```bash
$ argocd repo add git@github.com:jessebot/argo-kafka-example/charts/kafka --insecure-ignore-host-key --ssh-private-key-path ~/id_rsa_argo_deploy
```

Commit message:

added notes on gh repo create edge case where a private/public/internal flag may be required

README.md, after:

# Kubernetes, ArgoCD, and Kafka
Just a quick example of how to set up a test Kuberentes (k8s) environment with KIND, and then using ArgoCD as our Continuous Delivery to test deploy a Kafka helm chart :) I'm writing this in mid-May 2022, and I make no promises for people trying to do legacy work, or proceed in the future. If it's not mid-May 2022, ymmv.

If you'd like, you can Learn more about the following before proceeding:
- [brew](https://brew.sh/) - Missing package manager for Mac (also supports Linux)
- [docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/) - Containerization tooling
- [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/what-is-kubernetes/) - [THE CLUSTER](media/peridot.png) we use to scale containers :3
- [KIND](https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/) - Tool to spin up mini k8s cluster
- [helm](https://helm.sh/docs/intro/quickstart/) - This is a package manager for kube apps (mostly a bunch of k8s yamls)
- [ArgoCD](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/) - Continuous Delivery for k8s apps (4.6.0) (We'll install this on the cluster, but you'll need the [CLI tool](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/cli_installation/) locally)
- [Kafka](https://kafka.apache.org/intro) - Handles real-time data feeds at scale (We'll install this together)

## Installation of quick k8s cluster (KIND)
You can install docker, kubernetes, kind, and helm with brew on Mac or Linux :D Check the links in the above section to learn more.

### brew (On MacOS/Linux)
Make sure you have the `Brewfile` from this repo and then run: 
```bash
brew bundle install Brewfile
```

### apt (On Debian/Ubuntu)
```zsh
# install docker/kubectl deps
sudo apt-get -y install \
	apt-transport-https \
	ca-certificates \
	curl \
	gnupg-agent \
	software-properties-common

# download the gpg keys we need 
curl -fsSL https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu/gpg | sudo apt-key add -
sudo curl -fsSLo /usr/share/keyrings/kubernetes-archive-keyring.gpg https://packages.cloud.google.com/apt/doc/apt-key.gpg
curl https://baltocdn.com/helm/signing.asc | sudo apt-key add -

# Add the repositories 
# Docker requires the appropriate ubuntu flavor for docker, in this case "focal".
sudo add-apt-repository "deb [arch=amd64] https://download.docker.com/linux/ubuntu focal stable"
echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/kubernetes-archive-keyring.gpg] https://apt.kubernetes.io/ kubernetes-xenial main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/kubernetes.list
echo "deb https://baltocdn.com/helm/stable/debian/ all main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/helm-stable-debian.list

# update the package cache 
sudo apt-get -y update

# actually install something :D
sudo apt-get -y install \
	docker-ce \
	docker-ce-cli \
	containerd.io \
	kubectl \
	helm

# create a group for docker, and add the user to it for sudoless docker
sudo apt-get -y update
groupadd docker
sudo usermod -aG docker $USER
newgrp docker

# install KIND
curl -Lo ./kind https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/dl/v0.13.0/kind-linux-amd64
chmod +x ./kind
sudo mv ./kind /usr/bin/kind

# install ArgoCD CLI
sudo curl -sSL -o /usr/local/bin/argocd https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/releases/latest/download/argocd-linux-amd64
sudo chmod +x /usr/local/bin/argocd
```

Then you can create a quick small cluster with the below command. It will create a cluster called kind, and it will have one node, but it will be fast, like no more than a few minutes. 

```bash
$ kind create cluster
Creating cluster "kind" ...
 ✓ Ensuring node image (kindest/node:v1.21.1) 🖼
 ✓ Preparing nodes 📦
 ✓ Writing configuration 📜
 ✓ Starting control-plane 🕹️
 ✓ Installing CNI 🔌
 ✓ Installing StorageClass 💾
Set kubectl context to "kind-kind"
You can now use your cluster with:

kubectl cluster-info --context kind-kind

Not sure what to do next? 😅  Check out https://kind.sigs.k8s.io/docs/user/quick-start/
```

*Note: make sure you have kubectl installed, and you can install that with brew as well*

You'll want to follow kind advice and get some important info with, as well as verify the cluster is good to go:
``` bash
$ kubectl cluster-info --context kind-kind
Kubernetes control plane is running at https://127.0.0.1:64067
CoreDNS is running at https://127.0.0.1:64067/api/v1/namespaces/kube-system/services/kube-dns:dns/proxy

$ kind get clusters
kind

$ kg namespaces
NAME                 STATUS   AGE
default              Active   27m
kube-node-lease      Active   27m
kube-public          Active   27m
kube-system          Active   27m
local-path-storage   Active   27m
```

Now that we've verified we have a local k8s cluster, let's get Argo up and running!

## Installing ArgoCD

First we'll need helm (`brew install helm`, if you haven't already). Then, if you want this to be repeatable, you can clone this repo because you'll need to create the `Chart.yaml` and `values.yaml` in `charts/argo`. You can update your `version` parameter in `charts/argo/Chart.yaml` to the `version` param you see in [this repo](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-helm/blob/master/charts/argo-cd/Chart.yaml), at whatever time in the future that you're working on this. If you don't verify that version you will end up like me, half way down this article... :facepalm:

Then you can run the following helm commands:

```bash
$ helm repo add argo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
"argo" has been added to your repositories

$ helm dep update charts/argo/
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "argo" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
Saving 1 charts
Downloading argo-cd from repo https://argoproj.github.io/argo-helm
Deleting outdated charts
```

The next thing you need to do do is install the chart with:

```bash
$ helm install argo-cd charts/argo/
```

### How to fix crd-install issue (Skip if no issue on `helm install`)
*Why and How*
You would see this:
```bash
$ helm install argo-cd charts/argo/
manifest_sorter.go:192: info: skipping unknown hook: "crd-install"
manifest_sorter.go:192: info: skipping unknown hook: "crd-install"
NAME: argo-cd
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed May 11 10:53:55 2022
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
```

You need those CRDs, or the pod will just crash loop, and then when you try to follow the next logical step of port-forwarding to test the frontend, you'll get something like this, when you actually test it:
```bash
$ kubectl port-forward svc/argo-cd-argocd-server 8080:443
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8080 -> 8080
Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080
Handling connection for 8080
```

Which seems fine, but when you go to http://localhost:8080 in your browser you'll see this in stdout in your terminal:
```
E0511 11:07:43.094956   46063 portforward.go:406] an error occurred forwarding 8080 -> 8080: error forwarding port 8080 to pod 53c2b12a3c748bb2c9acd763ed898c5261227ca4b359c047ec264608cbc67058, uid : failed to execute portforward in network namespace "/var/run/netns/cni-84865981-c6a2-6e6d-1ce1-336602591e41": failed to connect to localhost:8080 inside namespace "53c2b12a3c748bb2c9acd763ed898c5261227ca4b359c047ec264608cbc67058", IPv4: dial tcp4 127.0.0.1:8080: connect: connection refused IPv6 dial tcp6 [::1]:8080: connect: connection refused
E0511 11:07:43.095553   46063 portforward.go:234] lost connection to pod
Handling connection for 8080
E0511 11:07:43.096354   46063 portforward.go:346] error creating error stream for port 8080 -> 8080: EOF
```

This happens because you're using an older version of argoCD, and is apparently because of [this issue](https://github.com/bitnami/charts/issues/7972) and is fixed by [this](https://github.com/helm/helm/issues/6930), so you can just update your version.

*Fix*
Update `version` of your `charts/argo/Chart.yaml` to at least 4.6.0 (cause that's what worked for me :D)

Then you'll need to rerun the dep update:
```bash
helm dep update charts/argo/
```

Followed by uninstalling, and then reinstalling:
```bash
$ helm uninstall argo-cd
release "argo-cd" uninstalled
```

### Resume here after CRD issue detour
Now, for the perfect installation of our dreams:
```bash
$ helm install argo-cd charts/argo/
NAME: argo-cd
LAST DEPLOYED: Wed May 11 14:52:59 2022
NAMESPACE: default
STATUS: deployed
REVISION: 1
TEST SUITE: None
```
:chef-kiss:

## Argo via the GUI
You'll need to test out the front end, but before you can do that, you need to do some port forwarding:
```bash
$ kubectl port-forward svc/argo-cd-argocd-server 8080:443
Forwarding from 127.0.0.1:8080 -> 8080
Forwarding from [::1]:8080 -> 8080
Handling connection for 8080
Handling connection for 8080
Handling connection for 8080
Handling connection for 8080
```

SUCCESS, we now get this in the browser:

<img src="media/argo_screenshot_2022-05-11_15.36.20.png" alt="Screenshot of the self-hosted-k8s ArgoCD login page in firefox" width="500"/>

You can now login with the default username, `admin`, and auto-generated password from this k8s secret:
```bash
kubectl get secret argocd-initial-admin-secret -o jsonpath="{.data.password}" | base64 -d
```

### CLI
First you should generate cli completion for your shell of choice. In my case, it was BASH:
```bash
$ argocd completion bash > ~/.bashrc_argocd
$ source ~/.bashrc_argocd

# need to port forward, but we want this in the background
$ kubectl port-forward svc/argo-cd-argocd-server 8080:443 &
```

Authenticate to your forwarded argo sessions via username
```bash
argocd login --port-forward --plaintext
Username: admin
Password: 
'admin:login' logged in successfully
Context 'port-forward' updated
```

This will auto-generate a config-file at ~/.config/argocd/config

Example ~/.config/argocd/config:

```bash
vmadmin@ubuntu:~/argo-kafka-example$ cat /home/vmadmin/.config/argocd/config
contexts:
- name: port-forward
  server: port-forward
  user: port-forward
current-context: port-forward
servers:
- grpc-web-root-path: ""
  plain-text: true
  server: port-forward
users:
- auth-token: < SOME_TOKEN >
  name: port-forward
```

If you dont use the flags "--port-forward" and "--plaintext" you'll 
probably get this error:

```bash
FATA[0001] dial tcp 127.0.0.1:8080: connect: connection refused 
```

If you don't have the argoCD server address already specified you'll get this:
```bash
FATA[0000] Argo CD server address unspecified
```

## Getting Started with Kafka
Kafka will also be installed via helm, but this time with Argo. You'll want to have a git repo for kafka for this next part. In this case, I'm using this repo, but only to keep this managable as a tutorial.

Add the Bitnami helm repo:
```
$ helm repo add bitnami https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
```

Make sure you have the `charts/kafka/Chart.yaml` for this next part. Then update your chart:
```
$ helm dep update charts/kafka/
Hang tight while we grab the latest from your chart repositories...
...Successfully got an update from the "bitnami" chart repository
Update Complete. ⎈Happy Helming!⎈
Saving 1 charts
Downloading kafka from repo https://charts.bitnami.com/bitnami
Deleting outdated charts
```

That should put you to the point where you can now push this repo, and have argo sync it.

## Prepare kafka repo
For sake of simplicity and future automation, you can use the [github cli](https://cli.github.com/) to create a repo.
You may need to specify --private, --public, or --internal flag when creating it. 
```
$ gh repo create argo-and-kafka-example --private 
✓ Created repository some_user/argo-and-kafka-example on GitHub
```

## Add kafka to ArgoCD

Create an SSH key pair, and then paste the public key into the deploy key section of your GitHub repo.

Make sure you have argocd cli installed, and then you can run (with `~/id_rsa_argo_deploy` being your newly created SSH key pair from the previous step):
```bash
$ argocd repo add git@github.com:jessebot/argo-kafka-example/charts/kafka --insecure-ignore-host-key --ssh-private-key-path ~/id_rsa_argo_deploy
```
